---
title: ucpc.i18n
supports: ["0.1.0"]
---

ucpc-solutions includes a utility for generating sentences or words. Additionally, the i18n is included to enable multilingual support for the content generated by this utility.

A utility function that generates a sentence or word receives a multilingual language map as the `i18n` parameter. If no parameter value is passed, it uses the default US English (`en-us`). 

The multilingual language map to be passed as an argument to each creation function is the same as the function name.

```typst
#import "/lib/i18n.typ": 
make-prob-meta(
  i18n: en-us.make-prob-meta
)
```

Therefore, the keys for multilingual maps follow these rules:

```typst
[locale].[function-name]
```

## Add i18n support language map for new locale

If you want to add new language support, you must add a new language map under `/lib/i18n/` and register it with the package.

1. The new language map must have the same key values ​​as `/lib/i18n/en-us.typ`. Therefore, if you want to add language support, it is recommended to copy and use the `en-us.typ` file.
2. Import the language map added to `/lib/i18n.typ`.
3. Add values ​​in the format `("locale name", language-map)` under the `supports` array in `/lib/i18n.typ`.
4. Test whether the language map you added works well. Testing can be performed with `just test` or `typst-test run i18n`.
  - The test operates only in an environment where typst-test is installed.

> [!NOTE]
> 3. Items do not directly affect the use of each language map.  
> However, it is used by testers to check whether the newly added language map supports all items well.
